---
layout: post
title:  "Building A Better Logger"
date:   2020-06-20
---
![Prototype web logbook](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-pWdIhW7iQfg/Xv4EVpx7tFI/AAAAAAABv-s/7jHyGqmPl8oY8WauwiDmx46aTCf_Uc-PgCLcBGAsYHQ/s320/Screenshot%2Bfrom%2B2020-07-02%2B09-58-40.png)

I haven't been on the air a ton over the past month. I've been a little fed up with my logging
software and overall logging strategy. I run mainly Linux on my computers and do a lot of FT8 with
WSJT-X. CQRLog has worked pretty well since it will accept log entries directly from WSJT-X thanks
to UDP integration. However, I'm a programmer and very picky, and there are things in CQRLog that I
just can't stand. For instance, CQRLog will let you backfill a QSO's name, city (QTH), state, etc.
from the QRZ.com database for several records at once, but it basically assumes you want to backfill
your entire log; I only want to fill in the last 5 QSOs that are missing that information and then
stop. CQRLog also doesn't have good merging. It will deduplicate, but it just deletes duplicates
instead of trying to keep relevant information from matching records. That shortfall makes it
painful to run CQRLog on multiple computers, for example a home desktop and a field laptop. To top
it off, CQRLog looks terrible on a HiDPI monitor with scaling.

Also, I realized my log strategy was flawed. I was uploading my logs from CQRLog to Logbook of the
World and then pulling LotW into my QRZ.com logbook, but eventually realized that LotW was dropping
details like the sent and received RST and TX power. Now I have about 200 records in QRZ that are
missing those fields. CQRLog has the details but can't help with fixing them; QRZ.com logbook
doesn't support record merging.

![Awards map](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-L4lsGQ3hnwo/Xv4EzHXVw8I/AAAAAAABv-0/okuGQc9PKpA_Hpb3xRywNo5kqc6t4_E2gCLcBGAsYHQ/s320/Screenshot%2Bfrom%2B2020-07-02%2B10-01-02.png)

Motivated by all of this, I've set out to write my own logging software to fit my
personal needs. Right off the bat, I want to have better merging of ADIF files and be able to update
records in my QRZ.com logbook. I also want to introduce interactive Google Maps for awards like
Worked All States.

My initial effort has been a web application in Golang, very similar to Pat since I've been doing
some development on that. It's highlighted some of the difficulty of working with the ADIF format;
I'm really missing my JSON and protobufs. There is a decent Golang ADIF parser written by GitHub
user [tzneal](http://github.com/tzneal/ham-go), but it's still a far cry from more modern formats
and generated clients.

I don't know if I'll ultimately keep this web app or rethink it. Sure, I have my award progress map
and I'll get to the point that I can fix my QRZ.com logs. But if I'm going to invest more time in
this, I don't really want to make a slightly better CQRLog or a slightly better QRZ.com logbook. The
amateur radio logger space hardly needs another half-baked solution. My goal ought to be bringing
together advantages from many logger applications and being significantly better than what exists
today. But what does that mean, a desktop client that adds peer-to-peer syncing and QRZ.com updates?
A cloud web application with offline capability that can support rig control and WSJT-X integration?
I'm not sure what's possible yet.
