---
layout: post
title: "Motorola DMR Radios for Hams"
date: 2022-09-10
---

One of the things that came out of my trip to Westcreek was a renewed interest in getting Motorola
radios to work for myself. I originally became interested in this back in February when RMHAM
University did a [class](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aUFTMX7Ys00) on using commercial DMR radios
from Motorola and Kenwood for ham radio purposes. Among other things, the Motorola section of the
class covered the very important difference between using the old and new versions of the customer
programming software (CPS). The class piqued my interest and I picked up a sleek Motorola SL-300 but
didn't actually get very far programming it.

![Motorola SL-300](/assets/2021-10-02-moto-sl300.jpg)

So over the past couple of weeks, I've tried to keep track of everything I needed to do to get
licenses for and successfully program one of these Motorola radios. Ultimately I needed to get the
TRBO CPS license as well as a wideband (25khz) entitlement from Motorola. There seems to be a lot of
outdated information out there, so hopefully this will be updated advice.

First, note that the Motorola radio website is https://www.motorolasolutions.com; just plain
motorola.com is for the cell phone division. I got an account on motorolasolutions.com, but that
only gave me access to the consumer side with FRS/GMRS/MURS radios. To order the necessary part
numbers, I had to contact customer service and have them upgrade my account to a business account
with a 10-digit customer ID. It sounds like this is a common arrangement for hams. Once they did
that, I was able to access https://myview.motorolasolutions.com/.

At this point I went on http://learning.motorolasolutions.com/ and took training course _PRD0001:
FCC Narrowbanding Mandate Training_ which carefully explained that wideband FM channels are no
longer allowed on commercial bands, only on ham radio bands. That only took about 15 minutes to
complete. After I finished that, I had to again contact customer service and have them manually
verify completion and open up the option to order the 25khz entitlement.

Once all of that was done I was able to go back to https://shop.motorolasolutions.com/ and order
part numbers:

- HKVN4362A for the TRBO CPS, which became free in February of 2022
- HKVN4046A for the 25khz entitlement, also free

![Motorola Solutions shopping cart](/assets/2022-09-10-motorola-cart.png)

After all of this hassle, I was finally able to download the TRBO CPS 2 from MyView, add the
wideband entitlement and program to my heart's content. I wouldn't really say I'm happy with CPS 2
because there is no import/export functionality, but considering there's no other option with
Motorola radios, I guess I'll just be happy it works at all!

The bottom line here is that when working with Motorola equipment as a ham, don't expect to be able
to do anything self-service. Contact customer support; it's relatively quick and painless, and you
won't get far any other way.
